adding job commands page (#2844)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/configure-jobs.md

---
title: "Configure jobs"
id: "configure-jobs"
description: "An overview of jobs and how to use dbt commands to set tasks for your dbt Cloud jobs."
---

A dbt Cloud job is a set of commands and configurations that help you to run it on a schedule and carry out a project task. When you configure a job, it'll generally include the following:

- A clear job name that's understood by yourself or peers
- Set of guidelines, like dbt version, target name, number of [threads](/docs/get-started/connection-profiles#understanding-threads)
- Optional job-level [environmental variables](/docs/build/environment-variables)
- Configurable [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands), including [built-in commands](#job-commands)

> - Option to defer to a [deployment environment](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments#types-of-environments)

Reviewer: @mirnawong1 I think we defer to another job, not env and we would link to /docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#deferral-and-state-comparison

Maybe:
Option to [defer state]( /docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#deferral-and-state-comparison) for state comparison

> - Option to defer to a [deployment environment](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments#types-of-environments)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Option to [defer state](docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#deferral-and-state-comparison) for comparison
```

- Job triggers, like an optional schedule, [continuous integration](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job), and [API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/overview)

## Prerequisites

To successfully configure a job, you'll need to have the following:

> - Active dbt Cloud account and project connected to a [data platform](/docs/get-started/connect-your-database) and [git provider](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-github)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An active dbt Cloud account and project connected to a [data platform](/docs/get-started/connect-your-database) and [git provider](/docs/collaborate/git/connect-github)
```

- [Access permission](/docs/collaborate/manage-access/about-access) to create, edit, and run jobs

> - A [deployment environment](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments#create-a-deployment-environment), which determines the settings for the executed job(s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [deployment environment](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments#create-a-deployment-environment), which determines environmental settings for the executed job(s)
```

## Configure a job

> Once you create your deployment environment in dbt Cloud, you'll be directed to the new environment page to create a new job. Jobs are a set of dbt commands that you want to run on a schedule to carry out a project task, for example, `dbt run` and `dbt test`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jobs are a set of dbt commands that you want to run on a schedule to carry out a project task, for example, `dbt run` and `dbt test`.
```

Feels like mixing facts with how-to?

Review the following steps to create a job:

1. Click **Create One** and then provide a job name, for example "Production run" 

2. Under **Environment**, add the following:

>     * **Environment** &mdash; Link to the environment you just created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Environment** &mdash; Link to an existing deployment environment
```

>     * **dbt Version** &mdash; Select the environment version. We recommend the most recent version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **dbt Version** &mdash; Select the environment [version](/docs/dbt-versions/core). We recommend the most recent version
```

    * **Commands** &mdash; Add or remove [commands](#job-commands), which are specific tasks you set in your dbt Cloud jobs

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/execution-settings.jpg" title="Configuring your execution job settings"/>

5. Under the **Triggers** section, you can configure when and how dbt should trigger the job: 

    * **Schedule** tab &mdash; Use the **Run on schedule** toggle to configure your job to run on scheduled days and time, or enter a [custom cron schedule](/docs/deploy/job-triggers)
    * **Continuous Integration** tab &mdash; Configure [continuous integration (CI)](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job) to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository
    * **API** tab &mdash; Use the [API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/overview) to trigger a job or send events to other systems

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/triggers.jpg" title="Configuring your job triggers"/>

6. Select **Save**, then click **Run Now** to run your job. Click the run and watch its progress under "Run history." You can also view logs for any historical invocation of dbt, configure errors, and view project documentation. 

## Job commands

> Commands are specific tasks you set in your dbt Cloud jobs.  Jobs come with built-in commands, however you can also configure them using the checkbox or adding [certain dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands), which are executed by the job. You can expect different outcomes when adding the command as a run steps compared to selecting a checkbox. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commands are specific tasks you set in your dbt Cloud jobs.  
```

- **Checkbox commands** &mdash; You have the option to select the [**Generate docs on run**](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) or [**Run on source freshness**](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) checkboxes for every job. These checkboxes enable you to generate project docs or enable source freshness automatically. 

- **Commands list** &mdash; You can add or remove [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) for every job.  You need to have at least one dbt command and can add as many as necessary.

    * Use [selectors](/reference/node-selection/syntax) as a powerful way to select and execute portions of your project in a job run. If a selector doesn't match any models, the job run won't consider it a failure. For example, to run tests for one_specific_model, use the selector: `dbt test --select one_specific_model`

     - IF THE SELECTOR DOESN'T MATCH NODES, WILL IT BE CONSIDERED? CANCELLED? CAN YOU PROVIDE AN EXAMPLE? NEED MORE INFO

> - **Command outcomes** &mdash; During a job run, the commands are “chained” together. This means if one of the commands in the chain fails, then the next ones aren't executed. In the following example, if the 5th step fails (`dbt run --select state:modified+ --full-refresh --fail-fast`), then the subsequent commands aren't executed, and the entire job fails. The failed job returns an [exit code](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/exit-codes) and "Error" job status:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Command outcomes** &mdash; During a job run, the commands are “chained” together. This means if one of the commands in the chain fails, then the next ones aren't executed. In the following example, if the 5th step fails (`dbt run --select state:modified+ --full-refresh --fail-fast`), then the subsequent commands aren't executed, and the entire job fails. The failed job returns a non-zero [exit code](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/exit-codes) and "Error" job status:
```

    <Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/skipped-jobs.jpg" title="An errored dbt Cloud job"/>

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Command Failures
```
this isn't really troubleshooting as much as it is job design
